added a callout-note to appendix C about Newton-Rhapson version of IRLS (#79)
JuliaMixedModels/EmbraceUncertainty: aGHQ.qmd

@benchmark deviance(updateβ!(m)) seconds = 1 setup = (m = com05fe)
```

:::{.callout-note collapse="true"}

### Alternative version of the IRLS algorithm

> We discussed a "fixed point" version of the IRLS algorithm in the preceeding text.
> There is another version of the IRLS algorithm which expresses the new iterate for $\theta$ as a Newton-Raphson update with the following update equation:
> $$
>   \bbbeta^{(k)}\ =\ \bbbeta^{(k-1)} + \alpha \times \left(\bbX'\bbW\bbX\right)^{-1} \bbX'\bbW\tilde{\bbr} ,
> $$
> where $\alpha$ is a step size parameter.
> In fact, this is the version of the IRLS algorithm implemented in [GLM.jl](https://juliastats.org/GLM.jl/stable/).
> For $\alpha = 1$ it is easy to see that the above equation is equivalent to the $\bbbeta^{(k)} = \left(\bbX'\bbW\bbX\right)^{-1} \bbX'\bbW\tilde{\bby}$, simply use the identity $\bbbeta^{(k-1)} = \left(\bbX'\bbW\bbX\right)^{-1} \left(\bbX'\bbW\bbX\right) \bbbeta$ and combine the two terms on the right hand side.
> For more details see [this RPubs tutorial](https://rpubs.com/enwuliu/1011024) by Enwu Liu.
> 
> However, the Newton-Rhapson version is not really suitable for PIRLS and was therefore not elaborated in this text.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The preceeding text presented a fixed-point version of the IRLS algorithm.
There is another version of the IRLS algorithm which expresses the next iteration step for $\beta$ as a Newton-Raphson update with the following update equation:
$$
  \bbbeta^{(k)}\ =\ \bbbeta^{(k-1)} + \alpha \times \left(\bbX'\bbW\bbX\right)^{-1} \bbX'\bbW\tilde{\bbr} ,
$$
where $\alpha$ is a step size parameter.

For $\alpha = 1$, it is easy to see that the Newton-Raphson step is equivalent to the fixed-point formulation
$$
  \bbbeta^{(k)} = \left(\bbX'\bbW\bbX\right)^{-1} \bbX'\bbW\tilde{\bby}
$$
by using the identity $\bbbeta^{(k-1)} = \left(\bbX'\bbW\bbX\right)^{-1} \left(\bbX'\bbW\bbX\right) \bbbeta$ and combing the two terms on the right hand side.
For more details see [this RPubs tutorial](https://rpubs.com/enwuliu/1011024) by Enwu Liu.

The Newton-Raphson formulation is used by [GLM.jl](https://juliastats.org/GLM.jl/stable/), but is less suitable for penalized IRLS (PIRLS), which we use below to extend this approach to generalized linear mixed models.
```

a bit of a reformulation/reorganization
